hi welcome to another episode of coffee
break with pam
i recently did a series of four one hour
weekly workshop with marketing profs
the focus of these workshops was
actually sales enablement especially how
marketers like us can better enable our
sales peeps it was well received so
marketing profs and i we team up decided
to do
to take this for hour workshop and make
it a full day workshop
on october 12th
at in-person b2b foreign in boston
if you are interested
to learn how you can better support your
sales team here is the registration link
i will also add that to the description
so you won't miss it
i will cover everything you need to know
about how to better support your sales
teams so come join me
i'll answer any question you may have
well
may not be the big
existential type of questions but if
anything related to b2b marketing or
marketing ask away
all right
today's question actually is from
christina she attended my session in
zebra's technologies mastermind event
and i mentioned very clearly that any
sales and marketing plans needs to be
grounded
on the clear business objectives and the
revenue models
she asked me specifically what if
management is not clear about the
business objectives and the revenue
target or has not
communicated that clearly
down to the employee level
what should she do
and that's what i want to cover today
how to get management to provide a clear
vision
before starting your marketing plan
in this short video i will touch on why
it's important to have a company vision
business objectives and a revenue target
before creating your plan
i will also touch what can you do to get
all that information
from management
by the way my coffee break is dedicated
to linkedin
facebook youtube and twitter if you miss
any of my live streams you can always go
back and check out my archive of
recorded videos on the pam dinner
youtube channel
so you will not miss anything
speaking of putting a plan together i
talk about the structure and also the
flow of a marketing plan last week
please check it out
right you can see the thumbnails
actually on the screen
and another topic i recently touched and
it was well received and during my
coffee break is how to avoid imposter
syndrome
we all wish we were someone else from
time to time
and i talked about my own personal
journey to overcome that and one of the
most important things is to love
yourself i mean love yourself deeply
seriously
and i also talk about three actionable
tips that you can kick
imposter syndrome to the curb so check
out that video as well
if you like how i explain things please
give the video a thumbs up
subscribe to my channel and comment
below love love love to hear from you
so now let's come back to christina's
question she is ready to put the
marketing plan together
but her management really
hasn't articulated or provided a clear
vision business objective or revenue
target
that she feel have all those information
to put her playing together
so why
are these pieces of information so
important
well
any kind of plans that you do
or we do is to bring something to life
say if you are hr manager
you probably need to create a hiring
plan
it needs to stop
what type of people you want to hire and
also where
so in order to know that you need to
know what your company wants to
accomplish first
as well as the sales focus
say the company wants to grow big on the
west coast of the us
well
if the work is not fully remote
your plane will likely need to focus on
the talent
based on the west coast
or
people who are willing to relocate
if your company is looking to expand
in the health care industry you may need
to focus on people who have health care
experience
or some other relevant background
therefore the business strategies and
sales focus will guide your planning and
execution
that same analogy actually applies to
marketing plan you need to know
your company's strategic priorities
business objectives and revenue target
sometimes even product priorities
all these information will guide your
marketing plan's recommendation
and execution
you will show them when you put your
plan together that your recommendation
aligns with the business strategies and
also revenue target
you can't
create a plan without knowing your
company's strategic focus business
priority and sales plan first it's that
simple you need to know
so what if your company or management
didn't make these key objectives clear
to everyone
that is actually very typical in many
companies
management feels that they've
communicated everything loud and clear
but employees still feel that
they don't know the focus very well and
that happens in both small companies
and big companies so if you feel that
way don't feel bad it's quite common it
happens to a lot of us
even for my own
marketing firms sometimes i will have my
employees come to ask me hey what is our
plan for a second half of the year
i feel i communicated that multiple
times but you know what not everybody
remember that so you have to say it
again
if you don't know or i'm not totally
sure about your company's strategic
focus business objectives or revenue
target
you can start by asking
your manager your vp of marketing your
sales team vp of sales occasionally you
can even ask your ceo provided your
company is very small and nimble and you
know him or her very well
here's another way that you can get more
information out of them this is what i
want to talk about why don't you create
your own version of a business plan and
revenue target the way you understand it
then you show them have them help you
make adjustment as needed so hear me out
so see this template right here
this is pretty simple right you can
start it with hey your marketing plan
but you started with the business goals
the business objectives marketing
objectives and marketing strategies you
are
going to put the marketing objectives
and marketing strategy together that's
no issue but you can fill out the blanks
on the business goals and the business
objectives the way you understand it and
then you show your management and say
hey if this is what you have in mind did
i do it right
right so show them
this is an example in terms of i fill
out all the blanks
right
the business goals increase revenue to
500 million dollars in this specific
year by expanding
to a two segments manufacturings and the
government segments right the business
objective is we want to empower our
customers to make superior decision by
delivering end-to-end and you can talk
about the software or hardware or
whatever solution you provide
the marketing objective is you want to
establish your company as a trusted
thought leader in a specific industry in
this specific case you can tie that back
to manufacturing and the government
segments you want to build the brain
awareness and drive demand through
qualifying nurturing leads right in
these segments because that's emphasized
as a part of your business goals
and then you can write down specifically
in terms of what marketing strategy you
want to accomplish
do you see how
the business goals the business
objective even sales focus
can actually tie to the marketing
objectives and marketing strategy
right
so you can fill the blanks and then
present the specific slide to your
management
they have something to react to
and they can give you feedback in terms
of i'm not sure that's correct 500
million is a stretch tag target is
actually 400 million for example or you
can they can say that manufacturing is
not necessarily the key focus for this
year it's the next year we for this year
we still we focus on something else
right they can give you a specific
feedback
there are other categories you can also
add as additional row
for example you can also add product
priorities
and sales focus
see i modify my slides as you can tell i
add two additional rows in addition to
the business goals and the business
objective i add the sales priorities and
the product focus or product priority to
indicate and share with your management
team say hey given that we also have a
10 products but we are going to focus on
these two or three
because your marketing budget is finite
your resources are limited and you need
to prioritize your resources and your
budget in terms of what kind of product
that you are going to support
so add additional roads if you think
that information is going to help you to
write your marketing objectives and the
marketing strategy
and you when i put that together on the
slide you can see they are somehow
interlocked and they are related from
top to bottom
if you have watched my marketing plans
video the best of marketing plans part
one two and three you are probably
pretty familiar with that specific slide
i just shared with you that is also the
oh the opening slide of the marketing
plan i propose and share with all the
listeners
what i'm trying to say is you can also
use exactly the same template
to drive the initial conversation with
your management
so it serves the dual purposes right so
that can be a cover slide of your
marketing plan but you can also use that
to drive conversation with your
management hashtag women
so christina
that's how i would do it
if i feel like my management didn't
clearly identify and share the business
the strategy revenue target and other
business imperatives with me or my team
i hope this is helpful
and let me know what you think okay i
hope you enjoy today's coffee break
and don't forget to comment subscribe
and like and join me next week for
another brand new topic take care bye